hello everybody laszlo Montgomery here
once again with another cookie from the
jar of Chinese history my apologies my
sincere apologies for taking two weeks
to get another podcast uploaded it's
been sort of a crazy time here we're
going to be starting a series of shows
on the early dynasties right after Labor
Day but today we're going to look at mr.
Lee cashing the wealthiest Chinese in
the world he's also the third richest
person in Asia behind two of india's
richest moguls that's Mukesh Ambani of
the reliance group weighing in at twenty
nine billion dollars and the steel baron
Lakshmi matal a tad behind mr. Ambani
with twenty eight point seven billion at
21 billion leaked hashing hasn't done
too bad for himself so he'd be the third
richest person in Asia and the 14th
richest worldwide and these figures are
based on the Forbes magazine 2010 list
now although this is a history podcast
Bigley or superman as he's called in the
hong kong press has been around for a
long time and has played such a big role
in China particularly in southern China
using the influence of his money and his
sterling reputation to advance a lot of
good things in China and certainly with
regard to China and Hong Kong he's given
away over a billion and a half dollars
of his own wealth through his leaking
foundation in examining the life of li
kai shang we can study a textbook
example of someone who came from china
and started a new life somewhere made a
fortune and never forgot where he came
from he's revered in Asia and around the
world by those who know of him as a guy
who came from nothing and left his home
in China at a very difficult time in the
country's history and with nothing
except the sweat of his own brow and his
own wits became perhaps the greatest
business tycoon in modern Chinese
history and from time to time we'll look
at some of these tycoons and examine
their impact on history and Chinese
society there have been some real
colorful business tycoons in the past
century yu Tong san Tong Tsui kin yep on
YK Pao run run shaw Stanley Ho Henry
Fong to name a few
made a lot and they all gave a lot back
I lived in Hong Kong nine years and you
couldn't go anywhere by foot by bus taxi
MTR kcr without seeing the generosity of
all these billionaires hospitals schools
sanitariums colleges universities
playgrounds gardens and libraries all
bearing the name of one of these tycoons
or another so today we look at Lee
caching perhaps the greatest of them all
Lee was a child ren born in the phoenix
city of chouchou on jun 13 1928 right at
the end of china's warlord era a lot of
stuff you buy in walmart and all these
discount retailers come from this city
it's famous for their ceramics their
style of food Gong phuti and very rich
culture the Chow Chow dialect is really
something else totally unintelligible
from Cantonese and most cans in these
dialects in Mandarin his name is
pronounced lee cha Chun China in 1940
was in total chaos with the Japanese
invading and an undeclared civil war
raging Lee's family left their native
land for Hong Kong when he was 12 his
father died of TB a few years later and
Lee had to drop out of school and
entered la vida at the age of 15 to go
out and support his family he ended up
working at a plastics trading company
the timing was perfect as plastics was
just starting to find all kinds of
interesting applications and consumer
products he started his own plastics
factory in 1950 he called it changhong
industries shanghang is Cantonese for
chang-jung this means long river the
Chang Jung is the second longest river
in the world which many people know as
the yang soo Lee caching named his
company after this great river it was so
much a part of China's history and
bisected the country into North and
South China Lee saw the market for
manufactured consumer products was on a
very steep trajectory upwards he knew it
wasn't enough to be a middleman you had
to control the manufacturing he became a
major supplier of plaster
flowers to western markets in addition
to other markets locally and in Asia by
1958 he moved into his own property that
he developed himself he had been renting
factory space up until then and then
came 1967 the year that changed
everything the caching was 39 when this
tumultuous year went down the Cultural
Revolution was raging in China and it
was just a complete mess up there we'll
examine this in another podcast but
suffice to say everything stopped in
china and all people were doing was
protesting making revolution attacking
their enemies turning on each other and
constantly railing against the West the
1967 riots or yo cheap album was a crazy
time in Hong Kong and anyone who was
alive at the time and in cognizant of
what was happening has many stories to
tell about how they weathered this storm
bombs were going off of the streets and
there were strikes and there was a mass
exodus out of Hong Kong and this of
course caused the property market to
tank the fear was that China was out to
snatch Hong Kong away from Britain as I
mentioned in a previous podcast on the
opium war china never recognized the
treaty that seated Hong Kong to Britain
so the sentiment was they were going to
invade and wreak havoc on the colony and
just destroy it li kai shang wasn't as
connected back then like he is now but
he knew this madness was only temporary
and the best and smartest thing to do
was ride out the storm in Hong Kong he
sent his family to Singapore and he
stayed behind and continued to run his
plastic flowers manufacturing business
he saw what was happening to property
values when everyone started dumping
their flats and developers tried to get
rid of land and unfinished projects by
1967 Lee was a successful manufacturer
and well established with cash in the
bank he took all his money and as
everyone was clamoring for flights out
of Kai Tak Airport for other
destinations Lee caching bought up as
much property as he could without
borrowing any money from banks Lee
caching knew in his heart's what a lot
of people know China needed Hong Kong
China in 1967 wasn't the China of 21st
century that we all know today China was
poor and still pretty much closed to the
west Hong Kong was China's one reliable
and lucrative window to the west Hong
Kong wasn't sitting on pools of oil or
gold or other natural resources Hong
Kong's greatest natural resource worthy
Hong Kong yen the people of Hong Kong
and their work ethic and ability to
survive and even thrive in the face of
adversity so he took what many believe
to be a big gamble at the time and when
everything quieted down and property
prices started recovering his gamble
paid off and gave him the financial
wherewithal to build an empire on this
foundation he had built with his own
hard work and business acumen now that
he had amassed a substantial amount of
property he set up a new company also
called Cheung Kong and this company has
been leaked hashim's flagship enterprise
and remains so to this day according to
their website the cheung kong group
today operates in 54 countries and
employs almost a quarter million staff
worldwide the company's business is of
course real estate investment which
mainly includes developing properties
the Hong Kong government will from time
to time raise revenue by holding
auctions to sell various tracts of land
in and around Hong Kong sometimes they
just take a bunch of dirt you just fill
in the gaps along the coast to reclaim
land out of what was formerly Hong Kong
harbor for example and after the land is
ready all the biggest of the big tycoons
bid for the property to build
residential flats or office buildings or
shopping malls or in some cases build
these mega projects incorporating
residential office hotels and commercial
including retail and then they sell and
lease out these units to the public and
make profits like you cannot imagine
this is what Li caching has been doing
for over 40 years today about fifteen
percent of Hong Kong residents go to
sleep every night in a flat in a
building that was developed by chungkong
Cheung Kong was reorganized into what is
known today as cheung kong holdings
limited this
is not only the listed name of the
company on the hong kong stock exchange
it's also the investment vehicle that
lee caching uses to by other companies
the most famous of which is the old
british trading company founded in 1863
known today as Hutchison Whampoa limited
and the other being the hongkong
electric company the hongkong electric
company runs the electric utility on
Hong Kong and Lama islands the firm has
been around since 1890 I was a customer
for many years of Hong Kong electric and
therefore can say I played a small role
in mr. Lee's vast accumulation of wealth
I always paid my electric bill on time
mr. Lee in September 1979 li kai shang
bought Hutchison Whampoa from Hong Kong
Bank who owned 22% stake in the firm at
the time it created quite a lot of stir
and controversy to the entrenched
British interests at the time leak
hushing paid 639 million hong kong
dollars which is about 82 million in
today's US dollars this was the first
time that's such a venerable old British
trading company ended up being
controlled by a Chinese definitely was a
sign of the times and a harbinger of
things to come Hutchison is an
international conglomerate in every
sense of the word in Hong Kong they on
Watson's which is the walgreens CVS and
Rite Aid of Southeast Asia especially in
the Chinese speaking regions they also
won't parkin shop the Safeway or kroger
of Hong Kong they also want many other
retail concerns around the world
Watson's and parkin shop are the most
famous they also have a huge portfolio
of property including some of the most
prestigious buildings in the markets
they invest there is an entire energy
and infrastructure arm of Hutchison that
includes husky oil in Canada Hutchison
was one of the pioneers and mobile phone
networks and they own networks
everywhere in our giant in the world
telecommunications industry but perhaps
their biggest business of all is their
investment in ports all around the world
they own a chai tea hong kong
international terminals limited which i
think is still the busiest and largest
independent operator in the world they
own among many others the port of
felixstowe in london
in fact they're in 50 ports around the
world they acquire them or they build
them and they make incredible profits
managing and operating them according to
their website they operate a total of
three hundred and six berths in the 50
ports they operate that's 306 big
container vessels loading and unloading
their cargo every day getting those
Barbie dolls KD furniture housewares
cosmetics luggage hardware everything
you buy and everything that's a chemical
or component of what you buy and consume
every day in fact twelve percent of all
the port traffic in the world passes
through this company Hutcherson's profit
in 2008 was 2.2 65 billion dollars on
44.6 6 billion in revenue that's in u.s.
dollars not bad for an 82 million dollar
investment as I mentioned at the outset
Lika Shane came from chouchou in
southern Guangdong province he has
poured hundreds and hundreds of millions
of dollars into every conceivable kind
of charity and project in his hometown
and throughout China when natural
disasters hit massive donations are
given in his name by his companies he
has pledged about 10 billion u.s.
dollars to charities like Bill Gates he
has his own foundation doing good works
everywhere you'd really have to dig hard
to find anything negative about the
quality and the sincerity of li
ka-shing's generosity and he lives in a
huge mansion in deep water bay which is
sort of a bel air or holmby hills of
hong kong but he never lost his humility
and supposedly still wears a cheap watch
his head forever and you won't see him
wearing john lobb shoes either not a
flashy guy by any means he's respected
for what he is humble origins live
during upheaval worked hard saved
invested wisely and amassed a fortune
and never forgot where he came from for
all the years I have known of Lee
caching he's always had a very positive
image but you can't be this high profile
and not have your detractors if you're
someone who supports democracy and
direct elections in Hong Kong you may
not be so keen on his very cozy
relations with the China government he
is very
to the highest layers of power in
Beijing he's not a big supporter of
democracy in Hong Kong or in China for
that matter he's not outspoken on this
but he's no advocate either he needs
these important relationships for the
sake of his company's continued growth
and prosperity so he can't upset China's
leaders and because of the many
relationships he has with so many China
private and state-owned companies his
name gets mixed in with a lot of dubious
businesses like weapons and high tech
transfer as you could tell I always
admired the guy but there are plenty out
there who might beg to differ li kai
shang is still alive and kicking he
turned 82 years old this past June go
check out his Facebook page that's all I
have for you today this one was just a
quickie about someone you might question
as to why he belongs in a podcast about
Chinese history the history books one
day we'll definitely include Lee caching
no matter what anyone thinks of the man
you can't say he didn't play a big role
as one of the many jet engines that help
China grow as fast and as spectacularly
as China did in the 80s 90s and into the
century be watching for the first in a
series of podcasts where I'll give a
general overview of China's dynasties
I'll probably get the first one uploaded
next week we'll start at the very
beginning with the first Chinese dynasty
the legendary shadynasty so this is
laszlo Montgomery happy once again to be
back home and wonderful Claremont
California after being on the road for
the past week with my China colleagues
please feel free to visit my website at
China history podcast com you're welcome
to email me with any questions comments
or suggestions for topics thanks and
take care everyone